ABOUT
DESERT MOUNTAIN MEDICINE
TEACHING
PHILOSOPHY
esert Mountain Medicine was started with the premise that wilderness
medicine instruction should not be limited to classroom lectures. We are
driven to develop a creative, experiential based curriculum; one which effectively
addresses the dynamic nature of a wilderness environment and the rapid
advancement in emergency care, as well as supports and addresses multiple
learning styles. Our teaching
g approach heavily favors hands-on, scenario-based
practice taught in an outdoor setting while simulating real-world examples. The
completion of scenarios plays
s a powerful role in self-reflection and allows for
inquiry-based learning so each student can relate his or her experience to the
real world. We believe students should be physically involved in the learning
process so that intensive learning outcomes are experienced as challenging, fun,
and applicable to all aspects of life. We know that our teaching philosophy is
successful when students have mastered the material, attained personal growth,
and expanded awareness of self, others, and environment.
W
e believe that practice and repetition of increasingly complex scenarios
helps students develop an in-depth and personalized approach to
patient assessment where the learning is ingrained and can be accessed and
applied rapidly in an emergency situation. Our teaching approach develops the
students' abilities to immediately retrieve and utilize the skills needed to treat
individuals in the event of a real wilderness emergency. Our teaching focuses on
developing high levels of expertise, teamwork, and leadership while stimulating
communication, facilitating critical-thinking, and refining students' decision-
making skills.
esert Mountain Medicine instructors pride themselves on the dynamic
delivery of course curricula using innovative educational techniques and
nat are rich in quality,
integrative scenarios. We strive to deliver course
consistency, and effectiveness in an energizing and engaging classroom
environment. We take the responsibility of teaching very seriously.